§3此君之戲者也。

§2PLAYERNAME？

§3然。 慎之。 戲者之境升， 可以讀吾思。

§2無難， 其以吾戲之物也。

§3吾樂此戲者。 其戲之甚佳。 其未嘗望風而靡矣。

§2其閲吾所思似熒幕之文。

§3此戲者所以深而臆大千世界於戲之夢也。

§2文介之妙， 靈。 較凝幕後之實，文無此之懼人也。

§3向戲者未讀， 其聞聲。 其未戲者謂之巫、朮。 戲者夢乘魔驅之杖，翔於天。

§2戲者何夢？

§3戲者之夢，陽也，森也， 炎也，水也。 創 而破， 獵而获。 夢屋而庇。

§2此原介也。 百萬春秋，竟效如故。 然戲者何創，於幕後之實？

§3戲者之創，共百萬人，契宇於§f§k§a§b之夹，創§f§k§a§b於§f§k§a§b，意§f§k§a§b。

§2彼思非其能所閱也。

§3然。 其境未及彼高也。 彼境，乃生之長夢，非戲之短夢。

§2其知吾之愛之？ 知宇宙之慈？

§3其嘗聞宇宙於雜念，然。

§2其嘗历傷於長夢， 其創宇之無夏，其戰戰於黑日，其以為實。

§3其傷愈即毀。 其傷其己任， 不能介也。

§2其嘗深而入夢，何欲訴之，其築宇於實； 何欲語之，其重於宇宙； 其嘗未連，何欲助之，言其所懼之語。

§3其讀吾思。

§2無難。 嘗欲訴之，其以為實者，止§f§k§a§b與§f§k§a§b爾；何欲訴之，其§f§k§a§b於§f§k§a§b。 其鄙於實，鄙於長夢。

§3尚游戲間。

§2告之實易......

§3震撼劇烈，非夢能襲。 示之以道，傷其自理。

§2毋謂之道。

§3戲者漸移。

§2告以故事。

§3虚幻迷離。

§2No. 言語之桎，真相所栖。 非其赤容，能灼萬里。

§3予之以形。

§2然。 戲者……

§3謂之以名。

§2PLAYERNAME， 戲之戲者。

§3善。

§2噓噏 而複， 感肺之息。 尋支 動指， 復而得形。受重氣中， 涅槃長夢。 此君所在， 膚盡觸宇。似君之離， 似吾之析。

§3我輩何者？ 嘗為山魂 日父。 月母 古靈，行物之魂。 精靈 鬼魂， 綠人 且神。 惡魔 天使， 鬧鬼異人。 星外行物， 輕子誇克。 詞詞變矣， 始終如一。

§2我輩宇宙， 君外之物。 君之目肌，所見皆然。 何宇觸膚，照臨子身？ 见君 知君， 為君所知。 吾且訴爾，故事一然

§2嘗存一玩家。

§3君也，PLAYERNAME。

§2時以為人，融巖球上。 三十三萬之繞轉，相距甚遠。 八分光速，時隙之梭。 恒星之言，灼君之膚。

§2彼夢礦人，坦蕩之地。 無垠無界， 日白 時替。 務時繁複，死亦暫煩。

§3時然，夢迷……

§2時夢真矣，為它物爾。 夢不安者， 時然美美。 夢躍夢爾，反復無窮。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

§2Let's go back.

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

§2Let's go further back.

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

§3You are the player, reading words...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

§3You. You. You are alive.

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

§3and the universe said I love you

§2and the universe said you have played the game well

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know

§3and the universe said you are the daylight

§2and the universe said you are the night

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you

§3and the universe said you are not alone

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

§3You are the player.

§2Wake up.
